---
layout: post
title:      "From Tank Tops to Desktops"
date:       2020-08-27 01:28:19 +0000
permalink:  from_tank_tops_to_desktops
---

It was almost a decade ago in Seattle, Washington (home). I was 20 years old, incredibly overweight, and I couldn't do a single push-up. It was time for a change, a radical change. I was living at home with my parents during this time, and a friend of my little brother was living with us. He was going through some family troubles, we don't need to get into that. His name is Sam, and he gave me the push in the right direction towards fitness. You see, Sam was 11 years old when he first heard of the great Arnold Shwarzenegger and from that moment on he dedicated his life to working out. Flash forward 8 years and he is one strong, very fit individual. Although he didn't do much for me in terms of showing me exercises, he did live the appropriate lifestyle that you need to get in, and stay in, shape. Living around that energy immediately draws you in, and helps you realize that you yourself can do it if you just put in the work. One year passes and I had lost a little over 70 pounds. So many people ask me how I did it, but the answer was so simple. I worked out consistently and I learned how to cook healthy foods. "No, I mean what else did you do?", they would follow up. There was no secret I was hiding from them. Just hard work and consistency. I am sure by this point you are wondering to yourself what the relevance of this has to do with why I chose to get into software engineering, and don't you worry, we are getting there!

The confidence I had was paramount to any time in my younger years. I thought to myself, "If I could ever give someone the same feeling of confidence, then I could possibly change someones life for the better." That year I spent 6 months self-studying a fitness textbook from cover to cover, took, and passed my first personal training certification. A month later I was hired by one of the biggest box gyms in the US. I continued training there for a couple years, until I found myself in a CrossFit gym to change things up. A week after my first CrossFit workout, I got my CFL1 (CrossFit Level 1 Certification) and became a coach! I loved that job with all of my heart, but 3 years later, I needed to find something where I could make more money. I was in my mid-twenties after all! I moved over into sales at a boutique style studio, Orangetheory Fitness, and 3 months later I was a Studio Manager! I was making a lot more money, and during that time I got married. My now ex-wife and I moved to Denver, Colorado, an absolutely beautiful state! We did get divorced in CO, and I felt like it was time that I move elsewhere. I found myself in California shortly there after, and I have now been here for two years, working for the same company and making even more money. 

Sunny, beautiful, intensely hot Sacramento is where I have settled (for now). I have made a big group of friends, and I am so happy to be here. Then, disaster strikes. The COVID pandemic starts to sweep the nation. Fitness gyms and studios, as you could imagine, shut down quickly. Two weeks to flatten the curve. Temporarily laid-off on March 16th, it is now late August and the studios still have yet to reopen. For Mother's Day, my roommate and I drove up to Seattle to visit our respective families. During that time I got to see my little brother and my best friend. Both of which are software engineers. My little brother graduated from University of Washington with a Computer Science degree, and my best friend went to a local coding bootcamp. After talking with my mom and dad for quite some time about the state of my chosen career path (the fitness industry), it seemed clear as day that if there was ever a time to change careers, it was now.

I can't stress enough how little I knew about computers and especially programming. The idea of potentially switching careers was both terrifying and exhilarating. But why? Why software engineering? The answer is more simple than you might think. I am going to be 30 this year, and although I have some money put away, I have hit a bit of a ceiling with fitness, both with income and job title. Even if I owned my own gym, the average CrossFit owner profits only about $40,000 a year, and that is less than I was making before! Gyms are closing around me left and right, and with the state of the nation, I predict the fitness industry will not be back to it's former glory for a very long time. So, I have hit the ceiling, and I would be going back to a very broken industry. The idea of programming for a living had honestly never really crossed my mind, but I did want stable income and a chance to buy a house and have a family one day while still living comfortably. Then, when I heard what my brother and best friend were doing, how much they loved it, and how much they were making right out of school, it was hard to ignore the attraction to this field of work. 

I didn't simply jump right in, I had to get my toes wet first. I hopped online and started programming the most basic Java (a recommended starting point from my brother). After a few hours I was hooked. You might be thinking that I then decided to go full force at software engineering, but you'd be wrong. I spent another couple of weeks, hours and hours a day studying. At this point I decided to take a "Coding 101" class from the same school my friend went to (not Flatiron). It was no help at all, it just set the tone for might be the rest of the course if you decided to move forward. Although it was basically a waste of time, I did have it in my head that I really wanted to pursue programming. Weeks of the same self-studying go by and I was now searching for the right school for me. I looked at more bootcamp choices than I can remember ,but I assure you it was A LOT! I even spoke with many of the schools recruiting teams. Simply put, Flatiron stuck out to me. It was the first time that I felt confident that I found a school I would love (thankfully I was right). By this point, I knew I needed to learn more, but the videos and websites I was using to learn were too difficult to navigate, as I felt like I needed some real direction. A thoughtful path to learning how to program. Then and there I committed, and haven't looked back. Software engineering was never on my radar before the pandemic, and I can't even begin to explain how happy I am now to have chosen this path. Here's to so much more learning, many years of happiness, and a life I can be proud of!
